.TH MSMOD 1 2008/12/19
.SH NAME
Mini-SEED Modifier - perform stream-based Mini-SEED modifications

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
msmod [options] file1 [file2 file3 ...]

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmsmod\fP is a general purpose Mini-SEED modification processor.
Mini-SEED records are read from each input file and modified as
specified and written back out in a serial-manner.  Each modification
is applied to all processed records.

If '-' is specified standard input will be read.  Multiple input files
will be processed in the order specified.

The header of each record processed is repacked regardless of selected
modifications, this repacking includes normalization of the sampling
rate fields (e.g. a factor of 32760 and multiplier of -819 will be
converted to a factor of 40 and multiplier of 1).  The repacking might
also change the offsets to any included blockettes if they were not
packed in tight sequence, the order of the blockettes will be
preserved.

When a input file is full SEED including both SEED headers and data
records all of the headers will be skipped and completely unprocessed.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-V         "
Print program version and exit.

.IP "-h/-H      "
Print program usage and exit, if -H is specified additional details
regarding output to user-defined archive structures (see -A).

.IP "-v         "
Be more verbose.  This flag can be used multiple times ("-v -v" or
"-vv") for more verbosity.

.IP "-s         "
Print a basic summary including the number of records and the number
of samples they included after processing all input records.

.IP "-ts \fItime\fP"
Limit processing to Mini-SEED records that start after \fItime\fP.
The format of the \fItime\fP arguement
is: 'YYYY[,DDD,HH,MM,SS,FFFFFF]' where valid delimiters are either
commas (,), colons (:) or periods (.).

.IP "-te \fItime\fP"
Limit processing to Mini-SEED records that end before \fItime\fP.
The format of the \fItime\fP arguement
is: 'YYYY[,DDD,HH,MM,SS,FFFFFF]' where valid delimiters are either
commas (,), colons (:) or periods (.).

.IP "-M \fImatch\fP"
Limit processing to Mini-SEED records that match the \fImatch\fP
regular expression.  For each input record a source name string
composed of 'NET_STA_LOC_CHAN_QUAL' is created and compared to the
regular expression.

.IP "-R \fIreject\fP"
Limit processing to Mini-SEED records that do not match the
\fIreject\fP regular expression.  For each input record a source name
string composed of 'NET_STA_LOC_CHAN_QUAL' is created and compared to
the regular expression.

.IP "-i           "
Modify input records in-place by writing modified records back to the
input files.

.IP "-o \fIoutfile\fP"
Write all processed Mini-SEED records to \fIoutfile\fP.

.IP "-A \fIformat\fR"
All output records will be written to a directory/file layout defined
by \fIformat\fP.  All directories implied in the \fIformat\fP string
will be created if necessary.  The option may be used multiple times
to write input records to multiple archives.  See the \fBArchive
Format\fR section below.

.IP "--net code"
Specify a new network code.

.IP "--sta code"
Specify a new station code.

.IP "--loc id"
Specify a new location id.

.IP "--chan codes"
Specify new channel codes.  A dot (.) will be interpreted as the same
character as the input channel name, for example, "L.." can be
specified to only replace the first code with 'L' and leave the other
two codes as they are.

.IP "--quality [DRMQ]"
Specify a new header/quality identifier, can be either 'D', 'R', 'M',
or 'Q'.

.IP "--timeshift secs"
Specify a time shift in seconds to apply to record start times.  This
value can be positive or negative and is not stored in the record as a
time correction.

.IP "--timecorr secs"
Change the value of the time correction field in the headers and apply
the correction to the record start times.  This is similar to
\fI--timecorr\fP except that the correction is stored in the header
and bit 1 of the activity flags (field 12) will be set to indicate the
correction has been applied.

.IP "--timecorrval secs"
Change the value of the time correction field in the headers without
applying the change to the record start times.  Bit 1 of the activity
flags (field 12) will not be changed.

.IP "--applytimecorr"
Apply the time correction value to the record start time if it has not
previously been applied and set bit 1 of the activity flags (field 12)
to indicate the correction has been applied.

.IP "--samprate sps"
Specify new sampling rate in samples per second.  This will be applied
to both the nominal and actual (if present) sampling rate fields.

.IP "--actflags bit,value"
Specify an activity flag by indicating the bit to change and it's
value.  Valid bit ranges are 0 to 6 and valid bit values are 0 and 1.
Activity flags are defined in the SEED 2.4 manual as follows:

.nf
  \fB[Bit 0]\fP : Calibration signals preset
  \fB[Bit 1]\fP : Time correction applied
  \fB[Bit 2]\fP : Beginning of an event, station trigger
  \fB[Bit 3]\fP : End of the event, station detriggers
  \fB[Bit 4]\fP : A positive leap second happended during this record
  \fB[Bit 5]\fP : A negative leap second happended during this record
  \fB[Bit 6]\fP : Event in progress
.fi

.IP "--ioflags bit,value"
Specify an I/O flag by indicating the bit to change and it's value.
Valid bit ranges are 0 to 5 and valid bit values are 0 and 1.  I/O
flags are defined in the SEED 2.4 manual as follows:

.nf
  \fB[Bit 0]\fP : Station volume parity error possibly present
  \fB[Bit 1]\fP : Long record read (possibly no problem)
  \fB[Bit 2]\fP : Short record read (record padded)
  \fB[Bit 3]\fP : Start of time series
  \fB[Bit 4]\fP : End of time series
  \fB[Bit 5]\fP : Clock locked
.fi

.IP "--dqflags bit,value"
Specify a data quality flag by indicating the bit to change and it's
value.  Valid bit ranges are 0 to 7 and valid bit values are 0 and 1.
Data quality flags are defined in the SEED 2.4 manual as follows:

.nf
  \fB[Bit 0]\fP : Amplifier saturation detected (station dependent)
  \fB[Bit 1]\fP : Digitizer clipping detected
  \fB[Bit 2]\fP : Spikes detected
  \fB[Bit 3]\fP : Glitches detected
  \fB[Bit 4]\fP : Missing/padded data preset
  \fB[Bit 5]\fP : Telementry synchronization error
  \fB[Bit 6]\fP : A digital filter may be charging
  \fB[Bit 7]\fP : Time tag is questionable
.fi

.IP "--b1000encoding encoding"
Chanage the Blockette 1000 data encoding format field.  Valid values
are included in the SEED manual documentation for Blockette 1000.

.IP "--b1001tqual percent"
Chanage the Blockette 1001 timing quality field, valid values are 0 to
100 percent.  Further description is included in the SEED manual
documentation for Blockette 1001.

.SH "Archive Format"
An archive format is expanded for each record using the following
substitution flags:

.nf
  \fBn\fP : network code, white space removed
  \fBs\fP : station code, white space removed
  \fBl\fP : location code, white space removed
  \fBc\fP : channel code, white space removed
  \fBY\fP : year, 4 digits
  \fBy\fP : year, 2 digits zero padded
  \fBj\fP : day of year, 3 digits zero padded
  \fBH\fP : hour, 2 digits zero padded
  \fBM\fP : minute, 2 digits zero padded
  \fBS\fP : second, 2 digits zero padded
  \fBF\fP : fractional seconds, 4 digits zero padded
  \fBq\fP : single character record quality indicator (D, R, Q)
  \fBL\fP : data record length in bytes
  \fBr\fP : sample rate (Hz) as a rounded integer
  \fBR\fP : sample rate (Hz) as a float with 6 digit precision
  \fB%\fP : the percent (%) character
  \fB#\fP : the number (#) character
.fi

The flags are prefaced with either the \fB%\fP or \fB#\fP modifier.
The \fB%\fP modifier indicates a defining flag while the \fB#\fP
indicates a non-defining flag.  All records with the same set of
defining flags will be written to the same file.  Non-defining flags
will be expanded using the values in the first record for the
resulting file name.

Time flags are based on the start time of the given record.

.SH "Archive format examples"

The format string for the predefined \fIBUD\fP layout:

\fB/archive/%n/%s/%s.%n.%l.%c.%Y.%j\fP

would expand to day length files named something like:

\fB/archive/NL/HGN/HGN.NL..BHE.2003.055\fP

As an example of using non-defining flags the format string for the
predefined \fICSS\fP layout:

\fB/data/%Y/%j/%s.%c.%Y:%j:#H:#M:#S\fP

would expand to:

\fB/data/2003/055/HGN.BHE.2003:055:14:17:54\fP

resulting in day length files because the hour, minute and second are
specified with the non-defining modifier.  The hour, minute and second
fields are from the first record in the file.

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
